One night some twenty years ago, during a siege of mumps in our enormous family, my youngest sister, Franny, was moved, crib and all, into the ostensibly germ-free room I shared with my eldest I was fifteen, was seventeen. Along about two in the morning, the new roommate's crying wakened me. I lay in a still, neutral position for a few listening to the racket, till I heard, or felt, stir in the bed next to mine. In those days, we kept a flashlight on the night table us, for emergencies that, as far- as I never arose. it on and got out of bed. "The bottle's on the stove, Mother said," I told him. "I gave it to her a while ago," said. "She isn't hungry." He went over in the dark to the bookcase and beamed the flashlight slowly back and forth along the stacks. I sat up in bed. "What are you going to do?" I said. "I maybe I'd read to her," said, and took down a book. "She's ten months old, for God's sake," I said. "I know," said. "They have ears. They can hear." The story read to Franny that night, by flashlight, was a favorite of his, a Taoist tale. To this day, Franny swears that she reading it to her: Duke Mu of Chin said to Po Lo: "You are now advanced in years. Is there any member of your family whom I could employ to look for horses in your stead?" Po Lo replied: "A good horse can be out by its build and appearance. But the superlative horse-one that raises no dust and leaves no tracks-is evanescent and fleeting, elusive as thin air. The talents of my sons lie on a lower plane altogether; they can tell a good horse when they see one, but they cannot tell a superlative horse. I have a friend, one Chiu-fang Kao, a hawker of fuel and vegetables, who in things appertaining to horses is nowise my inferior. Pray see him." Duke Mu did so, and subsequently dispatched him on the quest for a steed. Three months later, he with the news that he had found one. "It is now in Shach'iu" he added. "What kind of a horse is it?" asked the Duke. "Oh, it is a dun-colored mare," was the reply. However, someone being sent to fetch it, the animal out to be a coal-black stallion! Much displeased, the Duke sent for Po Lo. "That friend of yours," he said, "whom I commissioned to look for a horse, has made a fine mess of it. Why, he cannot even distinguish a beast's color or sex! What on earth can he know about horses?" Po Lo heaved a sigh of satisfaction. "Has he got as far as that?" he cried. "Ah, then he is worth ten thousand of me put together. There is no comparison us. What Kao keeps in view is the spiritual mechanism. In making sure of the essential, he forgets the homely details; intent on the inward qualities, he loses sight of the external. He sees what he wants to see, and not what he does not want to see. He looks at the things he ought to look at, and neglects those that need not be at. So clever a judge of horses is Kao, that he has it in him to judge better than horses." When the horse arrived, it out indeed to be a superlative animal. I've reproduced the tale here not just I invariably go out of my way to recommend a good prose pacifier to parents or older of ten-month-old babies but for quite reason. What follows is an account of a wedding day in 1942. It is, in my opinion, a self-contained account, with a beginning and an end, and a mortality, all its own. Yet, I'm in possession of the fact, I feel I must mention that the bridegroom is now, in 1955, no longer living. He committed suicide in 1948, while he was on vacation in Florida with his wife.... Undoubtedly, what I'm getting at is this: Since the bridegroom's permanent retirement from the scene, I been able to think of anybody whom I'd care to send out to look for horses in his stead. In late May of 1942, the progeny-seven in number-of Les and Bessie (Gallagher) Glass, retired Pantages Circuit vaude-villians, were flung, extravagantly speaking, all over the United States. I, for one, the second-eldest, was in the post hospital at Fort Benning, Georgia, with pleurisy-a keepsake of thirteen weeks' infantry basic training. The twins, Walt and Waker, had been split up a whole year earlier. Waker was in a conscientious objectors' camp in Maryland, and Walt was somewhere in the Pacific-or on his way there-with a field-artillery unit. (We've never been altogether sure where Walt was at that specific time. He was never a great letter writer, and very personal us after his death. He was killed in an unspeakably absurd G. I. accident in late autumn of 1945, in Japan.) My eldest sister, Boo Boo, who comes, chronologically, the twins and me, was an ensign in the Waves, off and on, at a naval base in Brooklyn. All that spring and summer, she occupied the small in New York that my and I had all but technically given up after our induction. The two youngest in the family, Zooey (male) and Franny (female), were with our parents in Los Angeles, where my father was hustling talent for a motion-picture studio. Zooey was thirteen, and Franny was eight. They were both appearing every week on a radio quiz program called, with perhaps typically pungent Goast-to-Coast irony, "It's a Wise Child." At one time . or I might well bring in here-or, in one year or the in our family have been weekly hired "guests" on "It's a Wise Child." and I were the first to appear on the show, back in 1927, at the respective ages of ten and eight, in the days when the program "emanated" from one of the convention rooms of the old Murray Hill Hotel. All seven of us, from Franny, appeared on the show under pseudonyms. Which may sound highly anomalous, considering that we're the of vaudevillians, a sect not usually antipathetic to publicity, but my had once read a magazine article on the crosses professional are obliged to bear-their estrangement from presumably desirable society-and she took an iron stand on the issue, and never, never wavered. (This is not the time at all to go into the question of whether most, or all, "professional" ought to be outlawed, pitied, or unsentimentally executed as disturbers of the peace. For the I'll only pass along that our combined income on "It's a Wise Child" has sent six of us college, and is now sending the seventh.) Our eldest whom I'm all but exclusively concerned here-was a corporal in what, in 1942, was still called the Air Corps. He was at a B-17 base in California, where, I believe, he was an acting company clerk. I might add, not quite parenthetically, that he was by far the least prolific letter writer in the family. I don't think I've had five letters from him in my life. On the morning of May 22nd or 3rd (no one in my family has ever dated a letter), a letter from my sister Boo Boo was placed on the foot of my cot in the post hospital at Fort Benning while my diaphragm was being strapped with adhesive tape (a usual medical procedure with pleurisy patients, presumably guaranteed to prevent them from themselves to pieces). When the ordeal was over, I read Boo Boo's letter. I still have it, and it follows here verbatim: DEAR BUDDY, I'm in a rush to pack, so this will be short but penetrating. Admiral Behind-pincher has decided that he must fly to parts unknown for the war effort and has also decided to take his secretary with him if I behave I'm just sick about it. aside, it means Quonset huts in freezing air bases and boyish passes from our fighting men and those horrible paper things to get sick in on the plane. The point is, is getting married-yes, married, so please pay attention. I can't be there. I may be gone for anywhere from six weeks to two months on this trip. I've met the girl. She's a zero in my opinion but I don't actually know that she's a zero. I mean she hardly said two words the night I met her. Just sat and smiled and smoked, so it isn't fair to say. I don't know about the romance itself at all, except that they met when was at Monmouth last winter. The is the end-a finger in all the arts, and sees a good Jungian man twice a week (she asked me twice, the night I met her, if I'd ever been analyzed). She told me she just wishes would relate to more In the same breath, said she just loves him, etc., etc., and that she used to listen to him religiously all the years he was on the air. all I know except that you've got to get to the wedding. I'll never forgive you if you don't. I mean it. Mother and Daddy can't get here from the Coast. Franny has the measles, for one thing. Incidentally, did you hear her last week? She went on at length about how she used to fly all the when she was four and no one was home. The new announcer is worse than Grant-if possible, even worse than Sullivan in the old days. He said she surely just dreamt that she was able to fly. The baby stood her ground like an angel. She said she knew she was able to fly when she came down she had dust on her fingers from touching the light bulbs. I long to see her. You, too. Anyhow, you've got to get to the wedding. Go A.W.O.L. if you have to, but please go. It's at three o'clock, June 4th. Very non-sectarian and Emancipated, at her house on 63rd. Some judge is marrying them. I don't know the number of the house, but it's exactly two doors down from where Carl and Amy used to live in luxury. I'm going to wire Walt, but I think he's been shipped out already. Please get there, Buddy. He weighs about as much as a cat and he has that ecstatic look on his face that you can't talk to. Maybe it's going to be all right, but I hate 1942. I think I'll hate 1942 till I die, just on principles. All my love and see you when I get back. BOO BOO A couple of days after the letter arrived, I was discharged from the hospital, in the custody, so to speak, of about three yards of adhesive tape my ribs. Then began a very strenuous week's campaign to get permission to attend the wedding. I was finally able to do it by laboriously ingratiating with my company commander, a bookish man by his own confession, whose favorite author, as luck had it, happened to be my favorite author-L. Manning Vines. Or Hinds. Despite this spiritual bond us, the most I could wangle out of him was a three-day pass, which would, at best, give me just time to travel by train to New York, see the wedding, bolt a dinner somewhere, and then return damply to Georgia. All sit-up coaches on trains in 1942 were only nominally ventilated, as I abounded with M.P.s, and smelled of orange juice, milk, and rye whiskey. I spent the night and reading a copy of Ace Comics that someone was kind to lend me. When the train pulled into New York-at ten after two on the afternoon of the wedding-I was coughed out, exhausted, perspiring, unpressed, and my adhesive tape was itching hellishly. New York itself was indescribably hot. I had no time to go to my first, so I left my luggage, which consisted of a canvas zipper bag, in one of those steel boxes at Penn Station. To make things still more provocative, as I was wandering in the garment district trying to find an empty cab, a second lieutenant in the Signal Corps, whom I'd saluting, crossing Seventh Avenue, took out a fountain pen and wrote down my name, serial number, and address while a number of civilians interestedly on. I was limp when I finally got into a cab. I gave the driver directions that would take me at least as far as "Carl and Amy's" old house. As soon as we arrived in that block, it was very simple. One just followed the crowd. There was even a canvas canopy. A moment later, I entered an enormous old brownstone and was met by a very handsome, lavender-haired woman, who asked me whether I was a friend of the bride or the groom. I said the groom. "Oh," she said, "well, we're just bunching up together." She laughed immoderately, and showed me to what to be the last vacant folding chair in a very crowded outsize room. I have a thirteen-year-old blackout in my mind with regard to the over-all physical details of the room. Beyond the fact that it was jam-packed and stifling hot, I can only two things: that there was an organ playing me, and that the woman in the seat at my right to me and enthusiastically stage-whispered, "I'm Helen From the location of our seats, I gathered that she was not the but, to play it safe, I smiled and nodded gregariously and was about to say who / was, but she put a decorous finger to her lips, and we both faced front. It was then, roughly, three o'clock. I closed my eyes and waited, a guardedly, for the organist to quit the incidental music and plunge into "Lohengrin." I a very clear idea of how the next hour and a quarter passed, aside from the cardinal fact that there was no plunging into "Lohengrin." I a dispersed band of unfamiliar faces that surreptitiously now and then, to see who was And I that the woman at my right addressed me once again, in the same festive . whisper. "There must be some delay," she said. "Have you ever seen Judge Ranker? He has the face of a saint." And I the organ music veering peculiarly, desperately, at one point, from Bach to early Rodgers and Hart. On the whole, I'm afraid, I passed the time paying sympathetic hospital calls on for being obliged to suppress my spells. I had a sustained, cowardly notion, the entire time I was in the room, that I was about to hemorrhage, or, at the very least, fracture a rib, despite the corset of adhesive tape I was wearing. At twenty past four-or, to put it blunter way, an hour and twenty past what to be all reasonable hope-the unmarried bride, her head down, a parent on side of her, was helped out of the building and conducted, fragilely, down a long flight of stone steps to the sidewalk. She was then hand over hand, it the first of the sleek black hired cars that were waiting, double-parked, at the curb. It was an excessively graphic moment-a tabloid moment-and, as tabloid moments go, it had its full complement of eyewitnesses, for the wedding guests among them) had already begun to pour out of the building, however decorously, in alert, not to say goggle-eyed, droves. If there was any even faintly lenitive aspect to the spectacle, the weather itself was responsible for it. The June sun was so hot and so glaring, of such multi-flashbulb-like mediacy, that the image of the bride, as she made her invalided way down the stone steps, tended to blur where blurring mattered most. Once the bridal car was at least physically removed from the scene, the tension on the sidewalk-especially the mouth of the canvas canopy, at the curb, where I, for one, was loitering-deteriorated into what, had the building been a church, and had it been a Sunday, might have been taken for fairly congregation-dispersing confusion. Then, very the emphasized word came-reportedly from the Uncle Al-that the wedding guests were to use the cars standing at the curb; that is, reception or no reception, change of plans or no change of plans. If the reaction in my vicinity was any criterion, the offer was received as a kind of beau geste. It quite go saying, that the cars were to be "used" only after a platoon of to as the "immediate family"-had taken what transportation they needed to quit the scene. And, after a somewhat mysterious and bottleneck-like delay (during which I remained peculiarly riveted to the spot), the "immediate family" did indeed begin to make its exodus, as many as six or seven persons to a car, or as few as three or four. The number, I gathered, depended upon the age, demeanor, and hip spread of the first occupants in possession. Suddenly, at someone's parting-but markedly crisp-suggestion, I found at the curb, at the mouth of the canvas canopy, attending to helping into cars. How I had been singled out to fill this post deserves some small speculation. So far as I know, the unidentified, middle-aged man of action who had me for the job a glimmer of a national that I was the bridegroom's Therefore, it seems logical that I was singled out for other, far less poetic reasons. The year was 1942. I was twenty-three, and newly drafted into the Army. It strikes me that it was solely my age, uniform, and the unmistakably serviceable, olivedrab aura about me that had left no doubt concerning my eligibility to fill in as doorman. I was not only twenty-three but a conspicuously retarded twenty-three. I loading into cars any degree of competence whatever. On the contrary, I went about it with a disingenuous, cadetlike semblance of single-mindedness, of adherence to duty. After a few in fact, I became all too aware that I was catering to the needs of a predominantly older, shorter, fleshier generation, and my performance as an arm taker and door closer took on an even more thoroughly bogus puissance. I began to conduct like an exceptionally adroit, wholly engaging young giant with a cough. But the heat of the afternoon was, to say the least, oppressive, and the compensations of my office must have to me increasingly tokenless. Abruptly, the crowd of "immediate family" scarcely to have begun to thin out, I lunged into one of the freshly loaded cars, just as it started to draw away from the curb. In doing it, I hit my head a very audible (perhaps retributive) crack on the roof. One of the occupants of the car was none other than my whispering acquaintance, Helen and she started to offer me her unqualified sympathy. The crack had evidently the car. But at twenty-three I was the sort of young man who responds to all public injury of his person, short of a fractured skull, by giving out a hollow, laugh. The car moved west, as it were, into the open furnace of the late-afternoon sky. It continued west for two blocks, till it Madison Avenue, and then it right-angled sharply north. I felt as we were all being saved from being caught up by the sun's flue only by the anonymous driver's enormous alertness and skill. The first four or five blocks north on Madison, conversation in the car was chiefly limited to remarks like "Am I giving you room?" and "I've never been so hot in my entire life." The one who had never been so hot in her entire life was, as I'd learned from a amount of eavesdropping at the curb, the of Honor. She was a hefty girl of about twenty-four or -five, in a pink satin dress, with a circlet of artificial forget-me-nots in her hair. There was a distinctly athletic ethos about her, as if, a year or two earlier, she might have majored in physical education in college. In her lap she was holding a bouquet of gardenias as it were a deflated volleyball. She was seated in the back of the car, hip-pressed her and a tiny elderly man in a top hat and cutaway, who was holding an unlighted clear-Havana cigar. Mrs. and I-our respective inside knees unribaldly touching- occupied the jump seats. Twice, any excuse whatever, out of sheer approval, I glanced at the tiny elderly man. When I'd originally loaded the car and held the door open for him, I'd had a passing impulse to pick him up bodily and insert him gently the open window. He was tininess itself, surely being not more than four nine or ten and being a midget or a dwarf. In the car, he sat staring very severely ahead of him. On my second look at him, I noticed that he had what very much appeared to be an old gravy stain on the lapel of his cutaway. I also noticed that his silk hat cleared the roof of the car by a good four or five inches. . . . But for the most part, those first few in the car, I was still mainly concerned with my own state of health. Besides pleurisy and a bruised head, I had a hypochondriac's notion that I was getting a strep throat. I sat surreptitiously curling back my tongue and exploring the suspected ailing part. I was staring, as I in front of me, at the back of the driver's neck, which was a relief map of boil scars, when my jump-seat mate addressed me: "I get a chance to ask you inside. How's that darling of yours? Aren't you Dickie Briganza?" My tongue, at the time of the question, was curled back exploratively as far as the soft palate. I disentangled it, swallowed, and to her. She was fifty, or thereabouts, fashionably and tastefully dressed. She was wearing a very heavy pancake makeup. I answered no-that I wasn't. She narrowed her eyes a at me and said I exactly like Celia Briganza's boy. Around the mouth. I tried to show by my expression that it was a mistake anybody could make. Then I went on staring at the back of the driver's neck. The car was silent. I glanced out of the window, for a change of scene. "How do you like the Army?" Mrs. asked. Abruptly, conversationally. I had a brief spell at that particular instant. When it was over, I to her with all available alacrity and said I'd made a lot of buddies. It was a difficult for me to swivel in her direction, what with the encasement of adhesive tape my diaphragm. She nodded. "I think you're all just wonderful," she said, somewhat ambiguously. "Are you a friend of the or the groom's?" she then asked, delicately getting down to brass tacks. actually, I'm not exactly a friend-" "You'd better not say you're a friend of the groom" the of Honor interrupted me, from the back of the car. "I'd like to get my hands on him for about two Just two that's all." Mrs. briefly-but to smile at the speaker. Then she faced front We made the round trip, in fact, in unison. Considering that Mrs. had for only an instant, the smile she had bestowed on the of Honor was a kind of jump-seat masterpiece. It was vivid to express unlimited partisanship with all young all over the world, but most particularly with this spirited, outspoken local representative, to whom, perhaps, she had been more than perfunctorily introduced, if at all. "Bloodthirsty wench," said a chuckling male voice. And Mrs. and I It was the of who had spoken up. He was seated me, at his wife's left. He and I briefly exchanged that blank, uncomradely look which, in the crapulous year of 1942, only an officer and a private could exchange. A first lieutenant in the Signal Corps, he was wearing a very interesting Air Corps pilot's cap-a visored hat with the metal frame removed from inside the crown, which usually conferred on the wearer a presumably desired, intrepid look. In his case, the cap begin to fill the bill. It to serve no other purpose than to make my own outsize, regulation headpiece feel like a clown's hat that someone had nervously out of the incinerator. His face was sallow and, essentially, He was perspiring with an incredible profusion-on his forehead, on his upper lip, and even at the end of his nose-to the point where a salt tablet might have been in order. "I'm married to the bloodthirstiest wench in six counties," he said, Mrs. and giving soft, public chuckle. In automatic deference to his rank, I very nearly chuckled right along with him-a short, inane, stranger's and draftee's chuckle that would clearly signify that I was with him and everyone else in the car, against no one. "I mean it," the of Honor said. "Just two -that's all, Oh, if I could just get my two hands-" "All right, now, take it easy, take it easy," her said, still with inexhaustible resources of connubial good humor. "Just take it easy. You'll last longer." Mrs. faced the back of the car again, and favored the of Honor with an all but canonized smile. "Did anyone see any of his at the wedding?" she inquired softly, with just a emphasis-no more than genteel-on the personal pronoun. The of answer came with toxic volume: "No. They're all out on the West Coast or someplace. I just wish I had." Her chuckle "What wouldja done if you had, honey?" he asked-and winked indiscriminately at me. I don't know, but I'd've done said the of Honor. The chuckle at her left expanded in volume. I would have!" she insisted. "I'd've said to them. I mean. My gosh." She spoke with increasing aplomb, as perceiving that, cued by her the rest of us within earshot were finding attractively forthright- spunky-about her sense of justice, however youthful or impractical it might be. "Don't know what I'd have said to them. I probably would have just blabbered idiotic. But my gosh. Honestly! I just can't stand to see get away with absolute murder. It makes my blood boil." She suspended animation just long to be bolstered by a look of simulated empathy from Mrs. Mrs. and I were now completely, supersociably, in our jump seats. "I mean it," the of Honor said. "You can't just barge life hurting feelings whenever you feel like it," "I'm afraid I know very about the young man," Mrs. said, softly. "As a matter of fact, I even met him. The first I'd heard that was even engaged-" "Nobody's met him," the of Honor said, explosively. "/ even met him. We had two rehearsals, and both times poor father had to take his place, just his crazy plane take off. He was supposed to get a hop here last Tuesday night in some crazy Army plane, but it was snowing or crazy in Colorado, or Arizona, or one of those crazy places, and he get in till one o'clock in the morning, last night. Then-at that insane hour-he calls on the phone from way out in Long Island or someplace and asks her to meet him in the lobby of some horrible hotel so they can talk." The of Honor shuddered eloquently. "And you know She's just darling to let anybody and his push her what gripes me. It's those kind of that get hurt in the end... Anyway, so she gets dressed and gets in a cab and sits in some horrible lobby talking with him till quarter to five in the morning." The of Honor released her grip on her gardenia bouquet long to raise two clenched fists above her lap. "Ooo, it makes me so mad!" she said. "What hotel?" I asked the of Honor. "Do you know?" I tried to make my voice sound casual, as my father might be in the hotel business and I took a understandable filial interest in where stopped in New York. In reality, my question meant nothing. I was just thinking aloud, more or less. I'd been interested in the fact that my had asked his fiancee to meet him in a hotel lobby, than at his empty, available The morality of the invitation was by no means out of character, but it interested me, mildly, nonetheless. "I don't know which hotel," the of Honor said irritably. "Just some hotel." She stared at me. "Why?" she demanded. "Are you a friend of his?" There was distinctly intimidating about her stare. It to come from a one-woman mob, separated only by time and chance from her knitting bag and a splendid view of the guillotine. I've been terrified of mobs, of any kind, all my life. "We were boys together," I answered, all but unintelligibly. lucky you!" "Now, now," said her ' I'm sorry" the of Honor said to him, but all of us. "But you been in a room watching that poor kid cry her eyes out for a solid hour. It's not funny- and don't you forget it. I've heard about grooms getting cold feet, and all that. But you don't do it at the last I mean you don't do it so that you'll embarrass a lot of nice half to death and break a kid's spirit and everything! If he'd changed his mind, why he write to her and at least break it off like a gentleman, for goodness' sake? Before all the damage was done." "All right, take it easy, just take it easy," her said. His chuckle was still there, but it was sounding a strained. I mean it! Why he write to her and just tell her, like a man, and prevent all this tragedy and everything?" She at me, abruptly. "Do you have any idea where he is, by any chance?" she demanded, with metal in her voice. "If you were boyhood friends, you have some-" "I just got into New York about two hours ago," I said nervously. Not only the of Honor but her and Mrs. as well were now staring at me. "So far, I even had a chance to get to a phone." At that point, as I I had a spell. It was genuine but I must say I did very to suppress it or shorten its duration. "You had that cough at, soldier?" the asked me when I'd come out of it. At that instant, I had spell-a genuine one, oddly I was still a sort of half or quarter right in my jump seat, with my body averted just the front of the car to be able to cough with all due hygienic propriety. It seems very disorderly, but I think a paragraph ought to be wedged in right here to answer a couple of stumpers. First off, why did I go on in the car? Aside from all incidental considerations, the car was reportedly destined to deliver its occupants to the parents' house. No amount of information, first- or secondhand, that I might have acquired from the prostrate, unmarried bride or from her disturbed (and, very likely, angry) parents could possibly have made up for the awkwardness of my presence in their Why, then, did I go on in the car? Why I get out while, say, we were stopped for a red light? And, still more salient, why had I jumped into the car in the first place?. .. There seem to me at least a dozen answers to these questions, and all of them, however dimly, valid I think, that I can dispense with them, and just reiterate that the year was 1942, that I was twenty-three, newly drafted, newly advised in the efficacy of keeping close to the herd-and, above all, I felt lonely. One simply jumped into loaded cars, as I see it, and stayed seated in them. To get back to the plot, I that while all three- the of her and Mrs. conjunctively staring at me and watching me cough, I glanced over at the tiny elderly man in the back. He was still staring fixedly ahead of him. I noticed, with gratitude, that his feet quite touch the floor. They like old and valued friends of mine. "What's this man supposed to do, anyway?" the of Honor said to me when I'd emerged from my second spell. "You mean I said. It clear, at first, from her inflection, that she had singularly ignominious in mind. Then, it struck me-and it was sheerly intuitive-that she might well be in secret possession of a motley number of biographical facts about that is, the low, regrettably dramatic, and (in my opinion) basically misleading facts about him. That he'd been Billy Black, a national radio "celebrity," for some six years of his boyhood. Or that, for example, he'd been a freshman at Columbia when he'd just fifteen. "Yes, said the of Honor. "What'd he do he was in the Army?" Again I had the same effulgent flash of intuition that she knew much more about him than, for some reason, she meant to indicate. It for one thing, that she knew well that had been teaching English his induction-that he'd been a professor. A professor. For an instant, in fact, as I at her, I had a very uncomfortable notion that she might even know that I was It wasn't a to dwell on. Instead, I her unsquarely in the eye and said, "He was a chiropodist." Then, abruptly, I faced and out of my window. The car had been motionless for some and I had just become aware of the sound of martial drums in the distance, from the direction of Lexington or Third Avenue. "It's a parade!" said Mrs. She had faced too. We were in the upper Eighties. A policeman was in the middle of Madison Avenue and was halting all north-and south-bound traffic. So far as I could tell, he was just halting it; that is, not redirecting it east or west. There were three or four cars and a bus waiting to move southward, but our car chanced to be the only vehicle aimed uptown. At the immediate corner, and at what I could see of the uptown side street leading Fifth Avenue, were standing two and three deep along the curb and on the walk, waiting, for a detail of troops, or nurses, or Boy Scouts, or what-have-you, to leave their assembly point at Lexington or Third Avenue and march past. "Oh, Lord. Wouldn't you just know?" said the of Honor. I and very nearly bumped heads with her. She was leaning forward, and all but into the space Mrs. and me. Mrs. her, too, with a responsive, pained expression. "We may be here for weeks," the of Honor said, craning forward to see out of the driver's windshield. "I be there now. I told and her I'd be in one of the first cars and that I'd get up to the house in about five Oh, God! Can't we do "I be there, too," Mrs. said, promptly. "Yes, but I solemnly promised her. The gonna be loaded with all kinds of crazy aunts and uncles and absolute strangers, and I told her I'd stand guard with about ten bayonets and see that she got a privacy and-" She broke off. "Oh, God. This is awful." Mrs. gave a small, stilted laugh. "I'm afraid I'm one of the crazy aunts," she said. Clearly, she was affronted. The of Honor at her. "Oh-I'm sorry. I mean you," she said. She sat back in her seat. "I just meant that their so tiny, and if starts pouring in by the dozens-You know what I mean." Mrs. said nothing, and I look at her to see just how seriously she'd been affronted by the of remark. I that I was impressed, in a peculiar sense, with the of tone of apology for her slip about "crazy aunts and uncles." It had been a genuine apology, but not an embarrassed and, still better, not an obsequious one, and for a moment I had a feeling that, for all her stagy indignation and showy grit, there was bayonet-like about her, not altogether unadmirable. (I'll grant, quickly and readily, that my opinion in this instance has a very limited value, I often feel a excessive pull who don't overapologize.) The point is, that right then, for the first time, a small wave of prejudice against the missing groom passed over me, a just perceptible whitecap of censure for his unexplained absenteeism. "Let's see if we can get a action here," the of said. It was the voice of a man who keeps calm under fire. I felt him deploying me, and then, abruptly, his head craned into the limited space Mrs. and me. "Driver," he said peremptorily, and waited for a response. When it came with promptness, his voice became a bit more tractile, democratic: "How long do you think we'll be tied up here?" The driver "You got me, Mac," he said. He faced front He was absorbed in what was going on at the intersection. A earlier, a small boy with a partly deflated red balloon had run out into the cleared, forbidded street. He had just been captured and was being dragged back to the curb by his father, who gave the boy two only partly open-handed punches the blades. The act was righteously booed by the crowd. "Did you see what that man did to that child?" Mrs. demanded of everyone in No one answered her. "What about asking that cop how long we're apt to be held up here?" the of said to the driver. He was still leaning forward. He'd evidently not been altogether satisfied with the laconic reply to his first question. "We're all in of a hurry, you know. Do you think you could ask him how long we're apt to be tied up here?" Without turning the driver rudely shrugged his But he off his ignition, and got out of the car, slamming the heavy limousine door him. He was an untidy, man in partial chauffeur's livery-a black serge suit, but no cap. He walked slowly and very independently, not to say insolently, the few steps over to the intersection, where the ranking policeman was directing things. The two then stood talking to each other for an endless amount of time. (I heard the of Honor give a groan, me.) Then, the two men broke into uproarious laughter-as they been conversing at all but had been exchanging very short dirty jokes. Then our driver, still laughing uninfectiously, waved a fraternal hand at the cop and walked-slowly-back to the car. He got in, slammed his door shut, extracted a from a package on the ledge over the dashboard, tucked the his ear, and then, and then only, to make his report to us. "He don't know," he said. "We gotta wait for the parade to pass by here." He gave us, collectively, an indifferent onceover. "After that we can go ahead O.K." He faced front, disengaged the from his ear, and lit it. In the back of the car, the of Honor a voluminous plaint of frustration and pique. And then there was silence. For the first time in several I glanced at the tiny elderly man with the unlighted cigar. The delay seem to affect him. His standard of comportment for in the rear seat of cars-cars in motion, cars stationary, and even, one help imagining, cars that were driven off bridges into to be fixed. It was wonderfully simple. You just sat very erect, maintaining a clearance of four or five inches your top hat and the roof, and you stared ferociously ahead at the windshield. If Death-who was out there all the time, possibly on the hood-if Death stepped miraculously the glass and came in after you, in all probability you just got up and went along with him, ferociously but quietly. Chances were, you could take your cigar with you, if it was a clear Havana. "What are we going to do? Just sit here?" the of Honor said. "I'm so hot I could die." And Mrs. and I just in time to see her look at her for the first time since they'd got into the car. "Can't you move over just a tiny bit?" she said to him. "I'm so squashed in here I can hardly breathe." The chuckling, opened his hands expressively. "I'm practically on the fender now, Bunny," he said. The of Honor then over, with mixed curiosity and disapproval, at her other seatmate, who, as unconsciously dedicated to cheering me up, was occupying far more space than he needed. There was a good two inches his right hip and the base of the outside armrest. The of Honor undoubtedly noticed it, too, but, for all her metal, she quite have what it would have taken to speak up to that personage. She back to her "Can you reach your she said irritably. "I'll never get mine out, the way we're packed in here." With the words "packed in," she her head again to shoot a brief, all-implicit look at the tiny guilty party who had usurped the space she ought rightfully to be hers. He remained sublimely out of touch. He went on glaring ahead of him, the driver's windshield. The of Honor at Mrs. and raised her eyebrows expressively. Mrs. responded with a countenance full of understanding and sympathy. The meanwhile, had shifted his weight over to his left, or window-side, buttock, and from the right-hand pocket of his officer's pinks had taken out a package of and a folder of matches. His wife out a and waited for a light, which was immediately forthcoming. Mrs. and I watched the lighting of the as it were a moderately bewitching novelty. "Oh, pardon me" the said, and extended his pack to Mrs. "No, thank you. I don't smoke," Mrs. said quickly- with regret. "Soldier?" the said, extending the pack to me, after the most imperceptible of hesitations. In all truth, I liked him for putting the offer, for the small victory of common courtesy over caste, but I declined the "May I see your matches?" Mrs. said, in an exceedingly diffident, voice. "These?" said the He handed his folder of matches readily over to Mrs. While I on with an expression of absorption, Mrs. examined the match folder. On its outside cover, in gold letters on a crimson background, were printed the words "These Matches Were Stolen from Bob and Edie Burwick's House." "Darling," Mrs. said, shaking her head. "Really darling." I tried to show by my expression that I perhaps read the inscription eyeglasses; I squinted, neutrally. Mrs. reluctant to hand the folder back to its owner. When she had, and the had replaced the folder in the breast pocket of his tunic, she said, "I don't think I've ever seen that Turned completely now, in her jump seat, she sat gazing fondly at the breast pocket. "We had a whole bunch of them made up last year," the said. "Be amazed, actually, how it keeps you from running out of matches." The of Honor to him-or, on him. "We do it for that," she said. She gave Mrs. a you-know-how-men-are look, and said to her, "I don't know. I just it was cute. Corny, but sort of cute. You know." "It's darling. I don't think I've ever-" "Actually, it isn't original or like that. Everybody's got them now," the of Honor said. "Where I got the idea originally, as a matter of fact, was from and dad. They had them the house." She inhaled deeply on her and as she went on talking, she released the smoke in syllabic drafts. "Golly, they're terrific what kills me about this whole business. I mean why doesn't like this happen to all the stinkers in the world, instead of the nice ones? what I can't understand." She to Mrs. for an answer. Mrs. smiled a smile that was at once worldly, wan, and enigmatic-the smile, as I of a sort of jump-seat Mona Lisa. "I've often wondered," she mused softly. She then mentioned, ambiguously, is my late baby sister, you know." "Oh!" the of Honor said with interest. then, you know." She out an extraordinarily long left arm, and flicked her ashes into the ashtray near her window. "I honestly think she's one of the few brilliant I've met in my entire life. I mean she's read just about everything that's ever been printed. My gosh, if I'd read just about one-tenth of what that woman's read and forgotten, I'd be happy. I mean she's taught, she's worked on a newspaper, she designs her own clothes, she does every single bit of her own housework. Her cooking's out of this world. Golly! I honestly think she's the most wonder-" "Did she approve of the marriage?" Mrs. interrupted. "I mean the reason I ask, I've been in Detroit for weeks and weeks. My sister-in-law passed away, and I've-" "She's too nice to say," the of Honor said flatly. She shook her head. "I mean she's too-you know-discreet and all." She reflected. "As a matter of fact, this morning's about the only time I ever heard her say boo on the subject, And then it was only just she was so upset about poor She out an arm and tipped her ashes "What'd she say this morning?" Mrs. asked avidly. The of Honor to reflect for a moment. nothing very much, she said. "I mean nothing small or derogatory or like that. All she said, was that this in her opinion, was a latent homosexual and that he was basically afraid of marriage. I mean she say it nasty or She just said it-you know-intelligently. I mean she was psychoanalyzed herself for years and years." The of Honor at Mrs. no secret or I mean Mrs. tell you that herself, so I'm not giving away any secret or "I know that," Mrs. said quickly. "She's the last person in the-" "I mean the point is," the of Honor said, "she isn't the kind of person that comes right out and says like that unless she knows what she's talking about. And she never, never would've said it in the first place if poor been so-you know-so prostrate and everything." She shook her head grimly. "Golly, you seen that poor kid." I no doubt, break in here to describe my reaction to the main import of what the of Honor was saying. I'd just as soon let it go, for the if the reader will bear with me. "What else did she say?" Mrs. asked. "Rhea, I mean. Did she say else?" I look at her-I take my eyes off the of face-but I had a passing, wild impression that Mrs. was all but in the main speaker's lap. "No. Not Hardly The of reflecting, shook her head. "I mean, as I say, she wouldn't have said standing and all-if poor been so crazy upset." She flicked her ashes "About the only other thing she said was that this was a schizoid personality and that, if you at it the right way, it was better for that things out the way they did. Which makes sense to me, but I'm not so sure it does to He's got her so buffaloed that she doesn't know whether she's coming or going. what makes me so-" She was interrupted at that point. By me. As I my voice was unsteady, as it invariably is when I'm vastly upset. "What Mrs. to the conclusion that is a latent homosexual and schizoid personality?" AH eyes-all searchlights, it of Mrs. even the were abruptly trained on me. "What?" the of Honor said to me, sharply, faintly hostilely. And again I had a passing, abrasive notion that she knew I was "What makes Mrs. think that a latent homosexual and schizoid personality?" The of Honor stared at me, then gave an eloquent snort. She and appealed to Mrs. with a maximum of irony. "Would you say that that pulled a stunt like the one today?" She raised her eyebrows, and waited, "Would you?" she asked quietly-quietly. "Be honest. I'm just asking. For this gentleman's benefit." Mrs. answer was gentleness itself, fairness itself. "No, I would not," she said. I had a sudden, violent impulse to jump out of the car and break into a sprint, in any direction at all. As I I was still in my jump seat when the of Honor addressed me "Look," she said, in the spuriously patient tone of voice that a teacher might take with a child who is not only retarded but whose nose is forever running unattractively. "I don't know how much you know about But what man in his right mind, the night he's supposed to get married, keeps his fiancee up all night blabbing to her all about how he's too happy to get married and that she'll have to postpone the wedding till he feels steadier or he won't be able to come to it? Then, when his fiancee explains to him like a child that everything's been arranged and planned out for months, and that her gone to incredible expense and trouble and all to have a reception and everything like that, and that her relatives and friends are coming from all over the country-then, after she explains all that, he says to her he's terribly sorry but he can't get married till he feels less happy or some crazy thing! Use your head, now, if you don't mind. Does that sound like Does that sound like in their right mind?" Her voice was now shrill. "Or does that sound like that be stuck in some booby hatch?" She at me very severely, and when I immediately speak up in defense or surrender, she sat heavily back in her seat, and said to her "Give me please. This thing's gonna burn me." She handed him her burning stub, and he extinguished it for her. He then took out his package "You light it," she said. "I got the energy." Mrs. cleared her throat. "It sounds to me," she said, "like a blessing in disguise that everything's "I ask you," the of Honor said to her with a fresh impetus, at the same time accepting a freshly lighted from her "Does that sound like a person-a man-to you? Or does it sound like that's never grown up or is just an absolute raving maniac of some crazy kind?" "Goodness. I don't know what to say, It just sounds to me like a blessing in disguise that every-" The of Honor sat forward alertly, exhaling smoke her nostrils. "All right, never mind that, drop that for a don't need that," she said. She was Mrs. but in actuality she was me Mrs. face, so to speak. "Did you ever see in the movies?" she demanded. The name she mentioned was the professional name of a then fairly well-known-and now, in 1955, a quite famous-actress-singer. "Yes," said Mrs. quickly and interestedly, and waited. The of Honor nodded. "All right," she said. "Did you ever notice, by any chance, how she smiles sort of crooked? Only on one side of her face, sort of? It's very noticeable if you-" "Yes-yes, I have!" Mrs. said. The of Honor dragged on her and glanced over-just perceptibly-at me. that happens to be a partial paralysis of some kind," she said, exhaling a gust of smoke with each word. "And do you know how she got it? This person hit her and she had nine stitches taken in her face." She over (in lieu, of a better stage direction) and flicked her ashes "May I ask where you heard that?" I said. My lips were quivering slightly, like two fools. "You may," she said, at Mrs. instead of me. happened to mention it about two hours ago, while was sobbing her eyes out." She at me. "Does that answer your question?" She shifted her bouquet of gardenias from her right to her left hand. It was the nearest thing to a fairly commonplace nervous gesture that I'd seen her make. "Just for your information, incidentally," she said, at me, "do you know who I think you are? I think you're this She waited, very briefly, and, when I say "You look like him, from his crazy picture, and I happen to know that he was supposed to come to the wedding. His sister or told Her look was fixed unwaveringly on my face. "Are you?" she asked bluntly. My voice must have a rented when I answered. "Yes," I said. My face was burning. In a way, I felt an infinitely less furry sense of self-identification than I had since I'd got off the train earlier in the afternoon. "I knew you were," the of Honor said. "I'm not stupid, you know. I knew who you were the you got in this car." She to her "Didn't I say he was his the he got in this car? Didn't I?" The altered his position a you said he probably-yes, you did," he said. "You did. Yes." One have to look over at Mrs. to perceive how attentively she had taken in this latest development. I glanced past and her, furtively, at the fifth passenger-the tiny elderly man-to see if his insularity was still intact. It was. No one's indifference has ever been such a comfort to me. The of Honor came back to me. "For your information, I also know that your no chiropodist. So don't be so funny. I happen to know he was Billy Black on 'It's a Wise Child' for about fifty years or Mrs. abruptly took a more active part in the conversation. "The radio program?" she inquired, and I felt her at me with a fresh, keener, interest. The of Honor answer her. "Which one were you?" she said to me. "Georgie Black?" The mixture of rudeness and curiosity in her voice was interesting, if not quite disarming. "Georgie Black was my Walt," I said, answering only her second question. She to Mrs. "It's supposed to be some kind of a secret or but this man and his were on this radio program under fake names or The Black "Take it easy, honey, take it easy," the suggested, nervously. His wife to him. "I will not take it easy," she said- and again, contrary to my every conscious inclination, I felt a pinch of close to admiration for her metal, solid brass or no. "His supposed to be so indigent, for heaven's sake," she said. "In college when he was fourteen or and all like that. If what he did to that kid today is intelligent, then I'm Mahatma Gandhi! I don't care. It just makes me sick!" Just then, I felt a extra added discomfort. Someone was very closely examining the left, or weaker, side of my face. It was Mrs. She started a bit as I abruptly her. "May I ask if you were Buddy Black?" she said, and a deferential note in her voice made me think, for a fractional that she was about to present me with a fountain pen and a small, morocco-bound autograph album. The passing made me distinctly uneasy-considering, if nothing else, the fact that it was 1942 and some nine or ten years past my commercial bloom. "The reason I ask," she said, "my used to listen to that program fail every single-" "If you're interested," the of Honor interrupted her, at me, "that was the one program on the air I absolutely loathed. I loathe precocious If I ever had a child that-" The end of her sentence was lost to us. She was interrupted, and unequivocally, by the most piercing, most deafening, most impure E-flat blast I've ever heard. All of us in the car, I'm sure, literally jumped. At that a corps, composed of what to be a hundred or more tone-deaf Sea Scouts, was passing. With what to be delinquent abandon, the boys had just rammed into the sides of "The Stars and Stripes Forever." Mrs. very sensibly, clapped her hands over her ears. For an eternity of seconds, it the din was all but incredible. Only the of voice could have risen above it-or, for that matter, would have attempted to. When it did, one might have she was us, obviously at the top of her voice, from some great distance away, somewhere, in the vicinity of the bleachers of Yankee Stadium. "I can't take this!" she said. "Let's get out of here and find some place to phone from! I've got to phone and say we're delayed! She'll be crazy!" With the advent of the local Armageddon, Mrs. and I had faced front to see it in. We now again in our jump seats to face the Leader. And, our deliverer. "There's a Schrafft's on Seventy-ninth Street!" she bellowed at Mrs. "Let's go have a soda, and I can phone from there! It'll at least be air-conditioned!" Mrs. nodded enthusiastically, and pantomined "Yes!" with her mouth. "You come, too!" the of Honor shouted at me. With very peculiar spontaneity, I I shouted back to her the altogether extravagant word "Fine!" (It isn't easy, to this day, to account for the of included me in her invitation to quit the: ship. It may simply have been inspired by a born leader's natural sense of orderliness. She may have had some sort of remote but compulsive urge to make her landing party complete... My singularly immediate acceptance of the invitation strikes me as much more easily explainable. I prefer to think it was a basically religious impulse. In Zen monasteries, it's a cardinal rule, if not the only serious enforced discipline, that when one monk calls out "Hi!" to monk, the latter must call back "Hi!" thinking.) The of Honor then and, for the first time, addressed the tiny elderly man beside her. To my undying gratification, he was still glaring ahead of him, as his own private scenery changed an iota. His un-lighted clear-Havana cigar was still clenched two fingers. What with his apparent unmindfulness of the din the passing corps was making, and, from a grim tenet that all old men over eighty must be stone-deaf or very hard of hearing, the of Honor her lips to within an inch or two of his left ear. "We're going to get out of the car!" she shouted at into him. "We're going to find a place to phone from, and maybe have some refreshment! Do you want to come with us?" The elderly man's immediate reaction was just short of glorious. He first at the of then at the rest of us, and then grinned. It was a grin that was no less resplendent for the fact that it made no sense whatever. Nor for the fact that his teeth were obviously, transcendently false. He at the of Honor inquisitively for just an instant, his grin wonderfully intact. Or, he to her- as if, I he believed the of or one of us, had lovely plans to pass a picnic basket his way. "I don't think he heard you, honey!" the shouted. The of Honor nodded, and once again the megaphone of her mouth up close to the old man's ear. With praiseworthy volume, she repeated her invitation to the old man to join us in quitting the car. Once again, at face value, the old man more than amenable to any suggestion in the world-possibly not short of trotting over and a dip in the East River. But again, too, one had an uneasy conviction that he heard a word that was said to him. Abruptly, he proved that this was true. With an enormous grin at all of us collectively, he raised his cigar hand and, with one finger, significantly tapped first his mouth, then his ear. The gesture, as he made it, related to a first-class joke of some kind that he fully meant to share with all of us. At that Mrs. beside me, gave a visible a jump-of comprehension. She touched the of pink satin arm, and shouted, "I know who he is! He's deaf and dumb-he's a deaf-mute! He's uncle!" The of lips formed the word "Oh!" She swung in her seat, her "You got a pencil and paper?" she bellowed to him. I touched her arm and shouted that I had. in fact, for some reason, as time were about to run out on all of us-I took out of my inside tunic pocket a small pad and a pencil stub that I'd recently acquisitioned from a desk drawer of my company Orderly Room at Fort Benning. Somewhat overly legibly, I wrote on a sheet of paper, "We're held up indefinitely by the parade. We're going to find a phone and have a cold drink somewhere. Will you join us?" I folded the paper once, then handed it to the of who opened it, read it, and then handed it to the tiny old man. He read it, grinning, and then at me and wagged his head up and down several times vehemently. I for an instant that this was the full and eloquent extent of his reply, but he motioned to me with his hand, and I gathered that he wanted me to pass him my pad and pencil, I did so- over at the of from whom great waves of impatience were rising. The old man adjusted the pad and pencil on his lap with the greatest care, then sat for a pencil poised, in obvious concentration, his grin diminished only a very Then the pencil began, very unsteadily, to move. An "i" was dotted. And then both pad and pencil were personally to me, with a marvellously cordial extra added wag of the head. He had written, in letters that had not quite jelled yet, the single word "Delighted." The of reading over my gave a sound faintly like a snort, but I quickly over at the great writer and tried to show by my expression that all of us in the car knew a poem when we saw one, and were grateful. One by one, then, from both doors, we all got out of the car -abandoned ship, as it were, in the middle of Madison Avenue, in a sea of hot, gummy macadam. The lingered a moment to inform the driver of our mutiny. As I very well, the corps was still endlessly passing, and the din abated a bit. The of Honor and Mrs. led the way to Schrafft's. They walked as a as advance scouts -south on the east side of Madison Avenue. When he'd finished briefing the driver, the caught up with them. Or up with them. He fell a them, in order to take out his wallet in privacy and see, how much money he had with him. The uncle and I up the rear. Whether he had intuited that I was his friend or simply I was the owner of a pad and pencil, he had more scrambled than gravitated to a walking position beside me. The very top of his silk hat quite come up as high as my I set a comparatively slow gait for us, in deference to the length of his legs. At the end of a block or so, we were quite a good distance the others. I don't think it troubled of us. Occasionally, I as we walked along, my friend and I up and down, respectively, at each other and exchanged idiotic expressions of pleasure at sharing one company. When my companion and I the revolving door of Schrafft's Seventy-ninth Street, the of her and Mrs. had all been standing there for some They were waiting, I as a forbiddingly integrated party of three. They had been talking, but they stopped when our motley twosome approached. In the car, just a couple of earlier, when the corps blasted by, a common discomfort, a common anguish, had lent our small group a semblance of alliance-of the sort that can be temporarily conferred on Cook's tourists caught in a very heavy rainstorm at Pompeii. All too clearly now, as the tiny old man and I the revolving door of Scharfft's, the storm was over. The of Honor and I exchanged expressions of recognition, not of greeting. "It's closed for alterations," she stated coldly, at me. Unofficially but unmistakably, she was appointing me odd-man-out again, and at that for no reason worth going into, I felt a sense of isolation and loneliness more overwhelming than I'd felt all day. Somewhat simultaneously, it's worth noting, my cough reactivated itself. I pulled my handkerchief out of my hip pocket. The of Honor to Mrs. and her "There's a Longchamps here somewhere," she said, "but I don't know where." "I don't Mrs. said. She very close to tears. At both her forehead and her upper lip, perspiration has seeped even her heavy pancake makeup. A black patent-leather handbag was under her left arm. She held it is it were a favorite doll, and she herself an experimentally rouged and powdered, and very unhappy, runaway child. "We're not gonna be able to get a cab for love or money," the said pessimistically. He was the worse for wear, too. His "hot pilot's" cap appeared cruelly incongruous on his pale, dripping, deeply face, and I an impulse to whisk it off his head, or at least to it somewhat, to adjust it into a less cocked position-the same impulse, in motive, that one might feel at a party, where there is invariably one small, exceedingly homely child wearing a paper hat that crushes down one or both ears. "Oh, God, what a day!" the of Honor said for all of us. Her circlet of artificial flowers was somewhat askew, and she was thoroughly damp, but, I the only thing destructible about her was her remotest appendage, so to speak -her gardenia bouquet. She was still holding it, however absent-mindedly, in her hand. It obviously stood the gaff. "What'U we do?" she asked, frantically for her. "We can't walk there. They live practically in Riverdsde. Does anybody have any bright ideas?" She first at Mrs. then at her then, in desperation at me. "I have an near here," I said and nervously. "It's just down the block, as a matter of fact." I have a feeling that I gave out this information a too loudly. I may even have shouted it, for all I know. "It belongs to my and me. My sister's using it while we're in the army, but she's not there now. She's in the Waves, and she's off on some trip." I at the of Honor-or at some point just over her head. "You can at least phone from there, if you like," I said. "And the air-conditioned. We might all cool off for a and get our breaths." When the first shock of the invitation had passed over, the of Mrs. and the went into a sort of consultation, of eyes only, but there was no visible sign that any kind of verdict was forthcoming. The of Honor was the first to take any kind of action. She'd been vain-at the other two for an opinion on the subject. She back to me and said, "Did you say you had a phone?" "Yes. Unless my sister's had it disconnected for some reason, and I can't see why she would have." "How do we know your won't be there?" the of Honor said. It was a small consideration that entered my overheated head. "I don't think he will be," I said. "He may be-it's his too-but I don't think he will. I don't." The of Honor stared at me, openly, for a moment- and not rudely, for a change, unless stares are rude. Then she back to her and Mrs. and said, "We might as well. At least we can phone." They nodded in agreement. Mrs. in fact, went so far as to her code of etiquette covering invitations given in front of Scharfft's. Through her sun-baked pancake makeup, a semblance of an Emily Post smile peeped out at me. It was very welcome, as I "G'mon, then, let's get out of this sun," our leader said. "What'll I do with this?" She wait for an answer. She stepped over to the curb and unsentimentally disengaged herself from her wilted gardenia bouquet. "O.K., lead on, Macduff," she said to me. "We'll follow you. And all I have to say is he'd better not be there when we get there, or I'll kill the bastard." She at Mrs. "Excuse my language-but I mean it." As directed, I took the lead, happily. An instant later, a silk hat materialized in the air beside me, considerably down and at the left, and my special, only technically unassigned cohort grinned up at me-for a I he was going to slip his hand into mine. My three guests and my one friend remained outside in the hall while I briefly cased the The windows were all closed, the two had been to "Shut," and the first breath one took was like inhaling deeply in someone's ancient racoon-coat pocket. The only sound in the whole was the somewhat trembling purr of the aged refrigerator and I had acquired secondhand. My sister Boo Boo, in her girlish, naval way, had left it on. There were, in fact, the any number of untidy signs that a seafaring lady had taken over the place. A handsome, small-size, ensign's navy-blue jacket was flung, lining down, across the couch. A box of Louis Sherry candies-half empty, and with the unconsumed candies all more or less experimentally squeezed-was open on the table, in front of the couch. A framed photograph of a very young man I'd never seen stood on the desk. And all the ashtrays in sight were in full blossom with crumpled facial tissues and lipsticked ends. I go into the kitchen, the bedroom, or the bathroom, except to open the doors and take a quick look to see if was standing upright anywhere. For I was kept pretty busy raising blinds, turning on emptying loaded ashtrays. Besides, the other members of the party barged in on me immediately. "It's hotter in here than it is on the street," the of Honor said, by way of greeting, as she strode in. "I'll be with you in just a I said. "I can't seem to get this to work." The "On" button to be stuck, in fact, and I was busily tinkering with it. While I worked on the switch-with my hat still on my head, I others circulated suspiciously the room. I watched them out of the corner of one eye. The went over to the desk and stood up at the three or four square feet of wall above it, where my and I, for defiantly sentimental reasons, had tacked up a number of glossy eight-by-ten photographs. Mrs. sat down-inevitably. I the one chair in the room that my deceased Boston bull used to enjoy sleeping in; its arms, upholstered in dirty corduroy, had been thoroughly slavered and chewed on in the course of many a nightmare. The uncle-my great to have disappeared completely. The of too, to be somewhere else. "I'll get you all to drink in just a second," I said uneasily, still trying to force the switch button on the "I could use cold to drink," said a very familiar voice. I completely and saw that she had stretched herself out on the couch, which accounted for her noticeable vertical disappearance. "I'll use your phone in just a second," she advised me. "I open my mouth anyway to talk on the phone, in this condition, I'm so parched. My tongue's so dry." The abruptly whirred into operation, and I came over to the middle of the room, into the space the couch and the chair where Mrs. was "I don't know what there is to drink," I said. "I in the refrigerator, but I imagine-" "Bring the eternal spokeswoman interrupted from the couch. "Just make it wet. And cold." The heels of her shoes were resting on the sleeve of my sister's jacket. Her hands were folded across her chest. A pillow was bunched up under her head. "Put ice in it, if you have any," she said, and closed her eyes. I down at her for a brief but murderous instant, then bent over and, as tactfully as possible, eased Boo Boo's jacket out from under her feet. I started to leave the room and go about my chores as host, but just as I took a step, the spoke up from over at the desk. "Whereja get all these pictures?" he said. I went over to him. I was still wearing my visored, oversize garrison cap. It occurred to me to take it off. I stood beside him at the desk, and yet a him, and up at the photographs on the wall. I said they were mostly old pictures of the who had been on "It's a Wise Child" in the days when and I had been on the show. The to me. "What was it?" he said. "I never heard it. One of those kids' quiz shows? Questions and answers, and like that?" Unmistakably, a soupgon of Army rank had slipped unnoisily but insidiously into his voice. He also to be at my hat. I took off my hat, and said, "No, not exactly." A amount of low family pride was evoked. "It was my was on it. And it more or less got. that way again after he went off the program. But he changed the whole format, He the program into a kind of round-table discussion." The at me with, I somewhat excessive interest. "Were you on it, too?" he said. "Yes." The of Honor spoke up from the other side of the room, from the invisible, dusty recesses of the couch. "I'd like to see a kid of mine get on one of those crazy progams," she said. "Or act. Any of those things. I'd die, in fact, I'd let any child of mine turn themself into a exhibitionist the public. It warps their whole entire lives. The pub/i-city and all, if nothing else-ask any psychiatrist. I mean how can you have any kind of a childhood or Her head, crowned in a now lopsided circlet of flowers, popped into view. As disembodied, it perched on the catwalk of the back of the couch, facing the and me. probably what's the matter with that of yours," the Head said. "I mean you lead an absolutely freakish life like that when you're a kid, and so naturally you never learn to grow up. You never learn to relate >to or exactly what Mrs. was saying in that crazy bedroom a couple of hours ago. But exactly. Your never learned to relate to anybody. All he can do, is go giving a bunch of stitches in their faces. He's absolutely unfit for marriage or halfway for goodness' sake. As a matter of fact, that's exactly what Mrs. said." The Head then just to glare over at the "Am I right, Bob? Did she or she say that? Tell the truth." The next voice to speak up was not the but mine. My mouth was dry, and my groin felt damp. I said I give a good God damn what Mrs. had to say on the subject of Or, for that matter, what any professional dilettante or amateur bitch had to say. I said that from the time was ten years old, every summa-cum-laude Thinker and intellectual men's-room attendant in the country had been a go at him. I said it might be different if had just been some nasty high-I.Q. showoff. I said he ever been an exhibitionist. He went down to the broadcast every Wednesday night as he were going to his own funeral. He even talk to you, for God's sake, the whole way down on the bus or subway. I said that not one God-damn person, of all the patronizing, fourth-rate critics and column writers, had ever seen him for what he was. A poet, for God's sake. And I mean a poet. If he never wrote a line of poetry, he could still flash what he had at you with the back of his ear if he wanted to. I stopped right there, thank God. My heart was banging away and, like most hypochondriacs, I had a passing, intimidating notion that such speeches were the stuff that heart attacks are made of. To this day, I have no idea at all how my guests reacted to my outbreak, the polluted stream of invective I'd loosed on them. The first real exterior detail that I was aware of was the universally familiar sound of plumbing. It came from part of the I the room and and past the immediate faces of my guests. "Where's the old man?" I asked. "The old man?" Butter wouldn't have melted in my mouth. Oddly when an answer came, it came from the not the of Honor. "I believe he's in the bathroom," he said. The statement was issued with a special forthrightness, proclaiming the speaker to be one of those who don't mince everyday hygienic facts. "Oh," I said. I absently the room Whether or not I deliberately avoided meeting the of eye, I don't or don't care to I spotted the uncle's silk hat on the seat of a chair, across the room. I had an impulse to say hello, aloud, to it. "I'll get some cold drinks," I said. "I'll just be a "May I use your phone?" the of Honor said to me as I passed by the couch. She swung her feet to the floor. "Yes-yes, of course," I said. I at Mrs. and the "I I'd make some Tom Collinses, if there are any lemons or limes. Will that be all right?" The answer startled me by its sudden conviviality. "Bring 'em on," he said, and rubbed his hands together, like a hearty drinking man. Mrs. left off studying the photographs over the desk to advise me, "If you're going to make Tom Collinses-please, just a teentsy, teentsy bit of gin in mine. Almost none at all, if it isn't too much trouble." She was beginning to look a bit recuperated, even in just the short time since we'd got off the street. Perhaps, for one reason, she was standing within a few feet of the I'd on and some cool air was coming her way. I said I'd look out for her drink, and then left her among the minor radio "celebrities" of the early thirties and the late twenties, the many passe faces of and my boyhood. The well able to shift for himself in my absence, too; he was already moving, hands joined his back, like a lone connoisseur, the bookshelves. The of Honor followed me out of the room, yawning as she did-a cavernous, audible yawn that she made no effort to suppress or obstruct from view. As the of Honor followed me the bedroom, where the phone was, the uncle came us from the far end of the hall. His face was in the ferocious repose that had fooled me during most of the car ride, but as he came closer to us in the hall, the mask reversed itself; he pantomimed to us both the very highest salutations and greetings and I found grinning and nodding immoderately in return. His sparse white hair freshly freshly washed, as he might have discovered a tiny barbershop cached away at the other end of the When he'd passed us, I felt a compulsion to look back over my and when I did, he waved to me, vigorously-a great, bon-voyage, come-back-soon wave. It me up no end. "What is he? Crazy?" the of Honor said. I said I hoped so, and opened the door of the bedroom. She sat down heavily on one of the twin as a matter of fact. The phone was on the night table within easy reach. I said I'd bring her a drink right away. "Don't bother- I'll be right out," she said. "Just close the door, if you don't mind... I don't mean it that way, but I can never talk on the phone unless the door's closed." I told her I was the exact same way, and started to leave. But just as I'd to come out of the space the two beds, I noticed a small collapsible canvas valise over on the window seat. At first glance, I it was mine, miraculously arrived at the all the way from Penn Station, under its own steam. My second was that it must be Boo Boo's. I walked over to it. It was unzipped, and just one look at the top layer of its contents told me who the real owner was. With more inclusive look, I saw lying on top of two laundered suntan shirts that I ought not to be left alone in the room with the of Honor. I it out of the bag, slipped it under one arm, waved fraternally to the of who had already inserted a finger into the first hole of the number she intended to dial, and was waiting for me to clear out, and then I closed the door me. I stood for some time outside the bedroom, in the gracious solitude of the hall, wondering what to do with diary, which, I ought to rush to say, was the object I'd out of the top of the canvas bag. My first constructive was to hide it till my guests had left. It to me a good idea to take it into the bathroom and drop it into the laundry hamper. However, on a second and much more involved rain of I decided to take it into the batrhoom and read parts of it and then drop it into the laundry hamper. It was a day, God knows, not only of rampant signs and symbols but of wildly extensive communication via the written word. If you jumped into crowded cars, Fate took circuitous pains, you did any jumping, that you had a pad and pencil with you, just in case one of your fellow-passengers was a deafmute. If you slipped into bathrooms, you did well to look up to see if there were any messages, faintly apocalyptical or otherwise, posted high over the washbowl. For years, among the seven in our one-bathroom family, it was our perhaps cloying but serviceable custom to leave messages for one on the medicine-cabinet mirror, using a moist sliver of soap to write with. The theme of our messages usually ran to excessively strong admonitions and, not infrequently, undisguised threats. "Boo Boo, pick up your washcloth when you're done with it. Don't leave it on the floor. Love, "Walt, your turn to take Z. and F. to the park. I did it yesterday. Guess who." "Wednesday is their anniversary. Don't go to movies or hang studio after broadcast or pay forfeit. This means you, too, Buddy." "Mother said Zooey nearly ate the Feenolax. Don't leave slightly poisonous objects on the sink that he can reach and eat." These, of course, are samples out of our childhood, but years later, when, in the name of independence or what-have-you, and I branched out and took an of our own, he and I had not more than nominally departed from the old family custom. That is, we just throw away our old soap fragments. When I'd checked into the bathroom with diary under my arm, and had carefully secured the door me, I spotted a message immediately. It was not, in handwriting but, unmistakably, in my sister Boo Boo's. With or soap, her handwriting was indecipherably and she had easily managed to post the following message up on the mirror: "Raise high the roof beam, carpenters. Like Ares comes the bridegroom, taller far than a tall man. Love, Irving Sappho, formerly under contract to Elysium Studios Ltd. Please be happy happy happy with your This is an order. I outrank on this block." The contract writer quoted in the text, I might mention, has been a great favorite-at appropriately staggered time intervals-with all the in our family, largely the immeasurable impact of taste in poetry on all of us. I read and reread the quotation, and then I sat down on the edge of the bathtub and opened diary. What follows is an exact reproduction of the pages from diary that I read while I was on the edge of the bathtub. It seems orderly to me to leave out individual datelines. Suffice it to say, I think, all these entries were made while he was at Fort Monmouth, in late 1941 and early 1942, some several months the wedding date was set. "It was freezing cold at retreat parade this evening, and yet about six men from our platoon alone fainted during the endless playing of 'The Star-Spangled Banner.' I suppose if your blood circulation is you can't take the unnatural military position of attention. Especially if you're holding a leaden rifle up at Present Arms. I have no circulation, no pulse. Immobility is my home. The tempo of 'The Star-Spangled Banner' and I are in perfect understanding. To me, its rhythm is a romantic waltz. "We got passes till midnight, after the parade. I met at the Biltmore at seven. Two drinks, two drugstore tuna-fish sandwiches, then a movie she wanted to see, with Greer Garson in it. I at her several times in the dark when Greer Garson's son's plane was missing in action. Her mouth was open. Absorbed, worried. The identification with Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer tragedy complete. I felt awe and happiness. How I love and need her undiscriminating heart. She over at me when the in the picture in the kitten to show to their M. loved the kitten and wanted me to love it. Even in the dark, I could sense that she felt the usual estrangement from me when I don't automatically love what she loves. Later, when we were a drink at the station, she asked me if I think that kitten was nice.' She doesn't use the word 'cute' any more. When did I ever frighten her out of her vocabulary? Bore that I am, I mentioned R.H. Blyth's definition of sentimentality: that we are being sentimental when we give to a thing more tenderness than God gives to it. I said (sententiously?) that God undoubtedly loves kittens, but not, in all probability, with Technicolor bootees on their paws. He leaves that creative touch to script writers. M. this over, to agree with me, but the 'knowledge' wasn't too very welcome. She sat stirring her drink and feeling unclose to me. She worries over the way her love for me comes and goes, appears and disappears. She doubts its reality simply it isn't as steadily pleasurable as a kitten. God knows it is sad. The human voice conspires to desecrate everything on earth." "Dinner tonight at the Very good. Veal, mashed potatoes, lima beans, a oil-and-vinegar green salad. For dessert there was made herself: a kind of frozen cream-cheese affair, with raspberries on it. It made tears come to my eyes. (Saigyo says, 'What it is I know not /But with the gratitude/ My tears fall.') A bottle of ketchup was placed on the table near me. told Mrs. that I put ketchup on everything. I'd give the world to have seen M. telling her defensively that I put ketchup even on string beans. My precious girl. "After dinner Mrs. suggested we listen to the program. Her enthusiasm, her nostalgia for the program, especially for the old days when Buddy and I were on it, makes me uneasy. Tonight it was broadcast from some naval airbase, of all places, near San Diego. Much too many pedantic questions and answers. Franny as she had a head cold. Zooey was in dreamy top form. The announcer had them off on the subject of housing developments, and the Burke girl said she hated houses that all look alike-meaning a long row of identical 'development' houses. Zooey said they were 'nice.' He said it would be very nice to come home and be in the wrong house. To eat dinner with the wrong by mistake, sleep in the wrong bed by mistake, and kiss goodbye in the morning thinking they were your own family. He said he even wished in the world exactly alike. He said you'd keep thinking you met was your wife or your or father, and would be throwing their arms each other wherever they went, and it would look 'very nice.' "I felt unbearably happy all evening. The familiarity and her struck me as being so when we were all in the living room. They know each other's weaknesses, especially conversational weaknesses, and pick at them with their eyes. Mrs. eyes watch over conversational taste in 'literature,' and eyes watch over her tendency to be windy, verbose. When they argue, there can be no danger of a permanent rift, they're Mother and Daughter. A and phenomenon to watch. Yet there are times when I sit there enchanted that I wish Mr. were more conversationally active. Sometimes I feel I need him. Sometimes, in fact, when I come in the front door, it's like entering a kind of untidy, secular, two-woman convent. Sometimes when I leave, I have a peculiar feeling that both. M. and her have stuffed my pockets with bottles and tubes containing lipstick, rouge, hair nets, deodorants, and so on. I feel overwhelmingly grateful to them, but I don't know what to do with their invisible gifts." "We get our passes after retreat this evening, someone dropped his rifle while the visiting British was making his inspection. I missed the 5:52 and was an hour late meeting Dinner at Lun Far's on 58th. M. irritable and tearful dinner, genuinely upset and scared. Her thinks I'm a schizoid personality. Apparently she's spoken to her psychoanalyst about me, and he agrees with her. Mrs. has asked to find out discreetly if there's any insanity in the family. I gather that was naive to tell her where I got the scars on my wrists, poor sweet baby. From what M. says, this doesn't bother her nearly so much as a couple of other things. Three other things. One, I withdraw from and fail to relate to Two, there is 'wrong' with me I seduced Three, evidently Mrs. has been haunted for days by my remark at dinner one night that I'd like to be a dead cat. She asked me at dinner last week what I intended to do after I got out of the Army. Did I intend to resume teaching at the same college? Would I go back to teaching at all? Would I consider going back on the radio, possibly as a 'commentator' of some kind? I answered that it to me that the war might go on forever, and that I was only that if peace ever came again I would like to be a dead cat. Mrs. I was cracking a joke of some kind. A sophisticated joke. She thinks I'm very sophisticated, according to She my deadly-serious comment was the sort of joke one ought to acknowledge with a light, musical laugh. When she laughed, I suppose it distracted me a and I forgot to explain to her. I told tonight that in Zen Buddhism a master was once asked what was the most valuable thing in the world, and the master answered that a dead cat was, no one could put a price on it. M. was relieved, but I could see she could hardly wait to get home to assure her of the harmlessness of my remark. She rode to the station with me in the cab. How sweet she was, and in so much better humor. She was trying to teach me to smile, spreading the muscles my mouth with her fingers. How it is to see her laugh. Oh, God, I'm so happy with her. If only she could be happier with me. I amuse her at times, and she seems to like my face and hands and the back of my head, and she gets a vast satisfaction out of telling her friends that she's engaged to the Billy Black who was on 'It's a Wise Child' for years. And I think she feels a mixed maternal and sexual drive in my direction. But on the whole I don't make her happy. Oh, God, help me. My one consolation is that my beloved has an undying, basically undeviating love for the institution of marriage itself. She has a primal urge to play house permanently. Her marital goals are so absurd and touching. She wants to get a very dark sun tan and go up to the desk clerk in some very posh hotel and ask if her Husband has up the mail yet. She wants to shop for curtains. She wants to shop for maternity clothes. She wants to get out of her house, whether she knows it or not, and despite her attachment to her. She wants with her features, not mine. I have a feeling, too, that she wants her own Christmastree ornaments to unbox annually, not her "A very funny letter came from Buddy today, written just after he came off K.P. I think of him as I write about He would despise her for her marriage motives as I've put them down here. But are they despicable? In a way, they must be, but yet they seem to me so human-size and that I can't think of them even now as I write this feeling deeply, deeply moved. He would disapprove of too. She's an irritating, opinionated woman, a type Buddy can't stand. I don't think he could see her for what she is. A person deprived, for life, of any understanding or taste for the main current of poetry that flows things, all things. She might as well be dead, and yet she goes on living, stopping off at delicatessens, seeing her analyst, consuming a novel every night, putting on her girdle, plotting for health and prosperity. I love her. I find her unimaginably brave." "The whole company is restricted to the post tonight. Stood in line for a full hour to get to use the phone in the Rec Room. relieved that I get in tonight. Which amuses and delights me. Another girl, if she genuinely wanted an evening free of her fiance, would go the motions of expressing regret over the phone. M. just said Oh when I told her. How I worship her simplicity, her honesty. How I rely on it." "3:30 A.M. I'm over in the Orderly Room. I sleep. I put my coat on over my pajamas and came over here. Al Aspesi is G.Q. He's asleep on the floor. I can stay here if I answer the phone for him. What a night. Mrs. analyst was there for dinner and grilled me, off and on, till about eleven-thirty. Occasionally with great skill, intelligence. Once or twice, I found pulling for him. Apparently he's an old fan of Buddy's and mine. He personally as well as professionally interested in why I'd been bounced off the show at sixteen. He'd actually heard the Lincoln broadcast, but he had the impression that I'd said over the air that the Gettysburg Address was 'bad for Not true. I told him I'd said I it was a bad speech for to have to memorize in school. He also had the impression I'd said it was a dishonest speech. I told him I'd said that 51,112 men were casualties at Gettysburg, and that if someone had to speak at the anniversary of the event, he simply have come forward and shaken his fist at his audience and then walked off-that is, if the speaker was an absolutely honest man. He disagree with me, but he to feel that I have a perfection complex of some kind. Much talk from him, and quite intelligent, on the virtues of living the imperfect life, of accepting one's own and others' weaknesses. I agree with him, but only in theory. I'll champion indiscrimination till doomsday, on the ground that it leads to health and a kind of very real, enviable happiness. Followed purely it's the way of the Tao, and undoubtedly the highest way. But for a discriminating man to achieve this, it would mean that he would have to dispossess himself of poetry, go beyond poetry. That is, he possibly learn or drive himself to like bad poetry in the abstract, let alone equate it with good poetry. He would have to drop poetry altogether. I said it would be no easy thing to do. Dr. Sims said I was putting it too stringently-putting it, he said, as only a perfectionist would. Can I deny that? "Evidently Mrs. had nervously told him about Gharlotte's nine stitches. It was rash, I suppose, to have mentioned that old finished business to She passes everything along to her while it's hot. I object, no doubt, but I can't. M. can only hear me when her is listening, too, poor baby. But I had no intention of discussing stitches with Sims. Not over just one drink. "I more or less promised M. at the station tonight that I'll go to a psychoanalyst one of these days. Sims told me that the man right here on the post is very good. Evidently he and Mrs. have had a tete-a-tete or two on the subject. Why doesn't this rankle me? It doesn't. It seems funny. It warms me, for no good reason. Even stock in the funny papers have remotely appealed to me. Anyway, I can't see that I have to lose by seeing an analyst. If I do it in the Army, it'll be free. M. loves me, but she'll never feel close to me, familiar with me, frivolous with me, till I'm slightly overhauled. "If or when I do start going to an analyst, I hope to God he has the foresight to let a dermatologist sit in on consultation. A hand specialist. I have scars on my hands from touching Once, in the park, when Franny was still in the carriage, I put my hand on the downy pate of her head and left it there too long. Another time, at Loew's Seventy-second Street, with Zooey during a spooky movie. He was about six or seven, and he went under the seat to avoid watching a scary scene. I put my hand on his head. Certain heads, colors and textures of human hair leave permanent marks on me. Other things, too. once ran away from me, outside the studio, and I grabbed her dress to stop her, to keep her near me. A yellow cotton dress I loved it was too long for her. I still have a lemon-yellow mark on the palm of my right hand. Oh, God, if I'm by a clinical name, I'm a kind of paranoiac in reverse. I suspect of plotting to make me happy." I closing the diary-actually, slamming it shut- after the word "happy." I then sat for several with the diary under one arm, until I became conscious of a discomfort from sat so long on the side of the bathtub. When I stood up, I found I was perspiring more profusely than I had all day, as I had just got out of a tub, than just been on the side of one. I went over to the laundry hamper, raised the lid, and, with an vicious wrist movement, literally threw diary into some sheets and pillowcases that were on the bottom of the hamper. Then, for want of a better, more constructive idea, I went back and sat down on the side of the bathtub I stared for a or two at Boo Boo's message on the medicine-cabinet mirror, and then I left the bathroom, closing the door excessively hard after me, as sheer force might lock up the place forever after. My next stop was the kitchen. Fortunately, it led off the hall, and I could get there to go the living room and face my guests. On arrival, and with the swinging door closed me, I took off my coat-my tunic-and dropped it across the enamel table. It to require all my energy just to take off my coat, and I stood for some time, in my T shirt, just resting up, as it were, taking on the herculean task of mixing drinks. Then, abruptly, as I were being invisibly policed small apertures in the wall I began to open cabinet and refrigerator doors, for Tom Collins ingredients. They were all there, except for lemons instead of limes, and in a few I had a somewhat sugary pitcherful of Collinses made. I took down five glasses, and then for a tray. It was just hard to find a tray, and it took me just long so that by the time I did find one, I was giving out small, faintly audible whimpers as I opened and shut cabinet doors. Just as I was starting out of the kitchen, with the pitcher and glasses loaded on the tray, and with my coat back on, an imaginary light bulb was on over my head-the way it is in comic strips to show that a character has a sudden very bright idea. I put down the tray on the floor. I went back over to the liquor shelf and took down a half-full fifth of Scotch. I my glass over and poured out-somewhat accidentally- at least four fingers of Scotch. I at the glass critically for a split second, and then, like a txied-and-true leading man in a Western movie, drank it off in one deadpan toss. A piece of business, I might well mention, that I record here with a distinct shudder. Granted that I was twenty-three, and that I may have been doing only what any red-blooded twenty-three-year-old simpleton would have done under similar circumstances. I don't mean quite so simple as that. I mean that I am Not a Drinker, as the expression goes. On an ounce of whiskey, as a rule, I get violently sick or I start scanning the room for unbelievers. On two ounces I've been known to pass out cold. This was, however-by way of an unparalleled understatement-no ordinary day, and I that as I up the tray again and started to leave the kitchen, I felt none of the usual immediate metamorphic changes. There to be an unprecedented degree of heat being generated in the subject's stomach, but that was all. In the living room, as I in the loaded tray, there were no auspicious changes in the deportment of my guests, beyond the revitalizing fact that the uncle had rejoined the group. He was ensconced in my dead Boston bull's old chair. His tiny legs were crossed, his hair was combed, his gravy stain was as arresting as ever, and-lo and behold-his cigar was lighted. We greeted each other even more extravagantly than usual, as these intermittent separations were too long and unnecessary for of us to bear with. The was still over at the bookshelves. He stood turning the pages of a book he'd taken out, engrossed in it. (I never did find out which book it was.) Mrs. considerably pulled together, even refreshed, with her pancake makeup, I newly attended to, was seated on the couch now, in the corner of it farthest away from the uncle. She was leafing a magazine. "Oh, how lovely!" she said, in a party voice, as she sighted the tray I'd just put down on the table. She smiled up at me convivially. "I've put very gin in it," I lied as I began to stir the pitcher. "It's so lovely and cool in here now," Mrs. said. "May I ask you a question, incidentally?" With that, she put aside her magazine, got up, and crossed the couch and over to the desk. She up and placed a fingertip on one of the photographs on the wall. "Who is this child?" she asked me. With the now smoothly and steadily in operation, and had time to apply fresh makeup, she was no longer the wilted, timorous child who had stood in the hot sun outside Schrafft's Seventy-ninth Street. She was me now with all the brittle equipoise that had been at her disposal when I first jumped into the car, outside the house, when she asked me if I was someone named Dickie Briganza. I left off stirring the pitcher of Collinses, and went and over to her. She had fixed a lacquered fingernail on the photograph of the 1929 cast of "It's a Wise Child," and on one child in particular. Seven of us were a circular table, a microphone in front of each child. the most child I've ever laid eyes on," Mrs. said. "You know who she looks a teeny bit like? Around the eyes and mouth?" At about that point, some of the Scotch-roughly, a finger of it, I'd say-was beginning to affect me, and I very nearly answered, "Dickie Briganza," but a cautionary impulse still prevailed. I nodded, and said the name of the motion-picture actress whom the of earlier in the afternoon, had mentioned in connection with nine surgical stitches. Mrs. stared at me. "Was she on 'It's a Wise Child'?" she asked. "For about two years, yes. God, yes. Under her own name, of course. Mayhew." The was now me, at my right, up at the photograph. At the drop of professional name, he had stepped over from the bookshelves to have a look. "I know she was ever on the radio as a child!" Mrs. said. "I know that! Was she so brilliant as a child?" "No, she was mostly just noisy, She sang as well then as she does now, And she was wonderful moral support. She usually arranged things so that she sat next to my at the broadcasting table, and whenever he said on the show that delighted her, she used to step on his foot. It was like a hand squeeze, only she used her foot." As I deliveverd this homily, I had my hands on the top rung of the chair at the desk. They slipped in the way one's elbow can abruptly lose its "footing" on the surface of a table or a bar counter. I lost and regained my belance simultaneously, and Mrs. nor the to notice it. I folded my arms. "On nights when he was in especially good form, -used to come home with a slight limp. true. just step on his foot, she tramped ton it. He care. He loved noisy girls." isn't that interesting!" Mrs. said. "I never knew she was ever on the radio or got her on, actually," I said. "She was the daughter of an osteopath who lived in our building on Riverside Drive." I replaced my hands on the rung of the chair, and leaned my weight forward on it, partly for support, partly in the style of an old backfence reminiscer. The sound of my own voice was now singularly pleasing to me. "We were playing stoopball-Are of you at all interested in this?" "Yes!" said Mrs. "We were playing stoopball on the side of the building one afternoon after school, and I, and who out to be started dropping marbles on us from the twelfth story. how we met. We got her on the program that same week. We even know she could sing. We just wanted her she had such a New Yorkese accent. She had a Dyckman Street accent." Mrs. laughed the kind of tinkling laugh that is, of course, death to the sensitive anecdotist, cold sober or otherwise. She had evidently been waiting for me to finish, so that she could make a singleminded appeal to the "Who does she look like to you?" she said to him importunately. "Around the eyes and mouth especially. Who does she remind you of?" The at her, then up at the photograph. "You mean the way she is in this picture? As a kid?" he said. "Or now? The way she is in the movies? Which do you mean?" "Both, I think. But especially right here in this picture." The scrutinized the severely, I as he by no means approved of the way Mrs. who after all was a civilian as well as a woman, had asked him to examine it. he said shortly. "Looks like in this picture. The hair and all." "But exactly!" said Mrs. She to me. "But exactly," she repeated. "Have you ever met I mean have you ever seen her when she's had her hair tied in a lovely big-" "I've never seen at all until today," I said. all right, just take my word." Mrs. tapped the photograph impressively with her index finger. "This child could double for at that age. But to a T." The whiskey was steadily edging up on me, and I quite take in this information whole, let alone consider its many possible ramifications. I walked back over-just a I think-to the table and resumed stirring the pitcher of Collinses. The uncle tried to get my attention as I came back into his vicinity, to greet me on my reappearance, but I was just abstracted by the alleged fact of resemblance to not to respond to him. I was also feeling just a dizzy. I had a strong impulse, which I indulge, to stir the pitcher from a seated position on the floor. A or two later, as I was just starting to pour out the drinks, Mrs. had a question for me. It all but sang its way across the room to me, so melodiously was it pitched. "Would it be very awful if I asked about that accident Mrs. Burwick happened to mention I mean those nine stitches she spoke of. Did your accidentally push her or like that, I mean?" I put down the pitcher, which extraordinarily heavy and unwieldy, and over at her. Oddly, despite the mild dizziness I was feeling, distant images begun to blur in the least. If Mrs. as a focal point across the room obtrusively distinct. "Who's Mrs. Burwick?" I said. "My wife," the answered, a shortly. He was over at me, too, if only as a committee of one to investigate what was taking me so long with the drinks. "Oh. Certainly she is," I said. "Was it an accident?" Mrs. pressed. "He mean to do it, did he?" "Oh, God, Mrs. "I beg your pardon?" she said coldly. "I'm sorry. Don't pay any attention to me. I'm getting a tight. I poured a great drink in the kitchen about five I broke off, and abruptly I'd just heard a familiar heavy tread in the uncarpeted hall. It was coming us-at us-at a great rate, and in an instant the of Honor jounced into the room. She had eyes for no one. "I finally got them," she said. Her voice strangely levelled off, stripped of even the ghost of italics. "After about an hour." Her face tense and overheated to the bursting point. "Is that cold?" she said, and came stopping, and unanswered, over to the table. She up the one glass I'd half filled a or so and drank it off in one greedy tilt. the hottest room I've ever been in in my entire life," she said- impersonally-and set down her empty glass. She up the pitcher and refilled the glass halfway, with much clinking and plopping of ice cubes. Mrs. was already well in the vicinity of the table. "What'd they say?" she asked impatiently. "Did you speak to Rhea?" The of Honor drank first. "I spoke to she said, putting down her glass, and with a grim but, for her, peculiarly undramatic emphasis on She first at Mrs. then at me, then at the "You can all relax," she said. "Everything's just fine and dandy." "What do you mean? What happened?" Mrs. said sharply. "Just what I said. The groom's no longer indisposed by happiness." A familiar style of inflection was back in the of voice. "How come? Who'd you talk to?" the said to her. "Did you talk to Mrs. "I said I talked to Everybody but the blushing bride. She and the groom've eloped." She to me. "How much sugar did you put in this thing, anyway?" she asked irritably. "It tastes like absolute-" "Eloped?" said Mrs. and put her hand to her throat. The of Honor at her. "All right, just relax now," she advised. "You'll live longer." Mrs. sat down inertly on the couch-right beside me, as a matter of fact. I was staring up at the of and I'm sure Mrs. immediately followed suit. "Apparently he was at the when they got back. So just ups and packs her bag, and off the two of them go, just like that." The of Honor shrugged her elaborately. She up her glass again and finished her drink. "Anyway, we're all invited to the reception. Or whatever you call it when the bride and groom have already left. From what I gathered, there's a whole mob of over there already. Everybody so gay on the phone." "You said you talked to Mrs. What'd she say?" the said. The of Honor shook her head, cryptically. "She was wonderful. My God, what a woman. She absolutely From what I gathered-I mean from what she said- this promised to start going to an analyst and get himself out." She shrugged her "Who knows? Maybe everything's gonna be hunkydory. I'm too pooped to think any more." She at her "Let's go. Where's your hat?" The next thing I knew, the of the and Mrs. were all filing the front door, with me, as their host, following them. I was weaving now very obviously, but since no one I think my condition went unnoticed. I heard Mrs. say to the of "Are you going to stop by there, or what?" "I don't know," came the reply. "If we do, it'll just be for a The rang the elevator bell, and -the three stood leadenly watching the indicator dial. No one to have any further use for speech. I stood in the doorway of the a few feet away, dimly on. When the elevator door opened, I said goodbye, aloud, and their three heads in unison me. "Oh, goodbye," they called over, and I heard the of Honor shout "Thanks for the drink!" as the elevator door closed them. I went back into the very unsteadily, trying to unbutton my tunic as I wandered along, or to yank it open. My return to the living room was unreservedly hailed by my one remaining guest-whom I'd forgotten. He raised a well-filled glass at me as I came into the room. In fact, he literally waved it at me, wagging his head up and down and grinning, as the supreme, jubilant moment we had both been long awaiting had finally arrived. I found I quite match grins with him at this particular reunion. I patting him on the Then I went over and sat down heavily on the couch, opposite him, and finished yanking open my coat. "Don't you have a home to go to?" I asked him. "Who looks after you? The pigeons in the park?" In response to these provocative questions, my guest toasted me with increased gusto, wielding his Tom Collins at me as it were a beer stein. I closed my eyes and lay back on the couch, putting my feet up and stretching out flat. But this made the room spin. I sat up and swung my feet to the floor- doing it so and with such poor coordination that I had to put my hand on the table to keep my balance. I sat slumped forward for a or two, with my eyes closed. Then, to get up, I for the Tom Collins pitcher and poured out a drink, spilling any amount of liquid and ice cubes onto the table and floor. I sat with the filled glass in my hands for some more drinking, and then I put it down in a shallow puddle on the table. "Would you like to know how got those nine stitches?" I asked in a tone of voice that to me. "We were up at the Lake. had written to inviting her to come up and visit us, and her finally let her. What happened was, she sat down in the middle of our driveway one morning to pet Boo Boo's cat, and threw a stone at her. He was twelve. all there was to it. He threw it at her she so there in the middle of the driveway with Boo Boo's cat. Everybody knew that for God's sake-me, Boo Boo, Waker, Walt, the whole family." I stared at the pewter ashtray on the table. never said a word to him about it. Not a word." I up at my guest, expecting him to dispute me, to call me a liar. I am a liar, of course. never did understand why threw that stone at her. My guest dispute me The contrary. He grinned at me encouragingly, as further I had to say on the subject could go down only as the absolute truth with him. I got up, and left the room. I considering, halfway across the room, going back and picking up two ice cubes that were on the floor, but it too arduous an undertaking, and I continued along to the hall. As I passed the kitchen door, I took off my tunic-peeled it off-and dropped it on the floor. It at the time, like the place where I left my coat. In the bathroom, I stood for several over the laundry hamper, debating whether I or take out diary and look at it I don't any more what arguments I advanced on the subject, pro or con, but I did finally open the hamper and pick out the diary. I sat down with it, on the side of the bathtub again, and riffled the pages till I came to the very last entry had made: "One of the men just called the flight line If the ceiling keeps lifting, we can get off morning. Op-penheim says not to hold our breaths. I phoned to tell her. It was very strange. She answered the phone and kept saying hello. My voice wouldn't work. She very nearly hung up. If only I could calm down a Oppenheim is going to hit the sack till the flight line calls us back. I too, but I'm too keyed up. I called to ask her, to beg her for the last time to just go off alone with me and get married. I'm too keyed up to be with I feel as I'm about to be born. Sacred, sacred day. The connection was so bad, and I talk at all during most of the call. How it is when you say I love you and the person at the other end shouts back 'What?' I've been reading a miscellany of Vedanta all day. Marriage partners are to serve each other. Elevate, help, teach, strengthen each other, but above all, serve. Raise their honorably, lovingly, and with detachment. A child is a guest in the house, to be loved and respected-never possessed, since he belongs to God. How wonderful, how sane, how difficult, and therefore true. The joy of responsibility for the first time in my life. Oppenheim is already in the sack. I be, too, but I can't. Someone must sit up with the happy man." I read the entry just once, then closed the diary and it back to the bedroom with me. I dropped it into canvas bag, on the window seat. Then I fell, more or less deliberately, on the nearer of the two beds. I was asleep-or, out I landed, or so it When I wakened, about an hour and a half later, I had a splitting headache and a parched mouth. The room was all but dark. I for a long time on the edge of the bed. Then, in the cause of a great thirst, I got up and gravitated slowly the living room, hoping there were still some cold and wet remnants in the pitcher on the table. My last guest had evidently let himself out of the Only his empty glass, and his cigar end in the pewter ashtray, indicated that he had ever existed. I still think his cigar end have been forwarded on to the usual run of wedding gifts being what it is. Just the cigar, in a small, nice box. Possibly with a blank sheet of paper enclosed, by way of explanation.